# Credit Card Fraud - Datasheet

## Motivation
The dataset has been collected and analysed during a research collaboration of Worldline and the Machine Learning Group on big data mining and fraud detection.
The project aims at improving the existing fraud detection process of Worldline by adding a number of deep learning and adaptive functionalities to the existing data driven strategies

The Machine Learning Group (MLG) (http://mlg.ulb.ac.be), founded in 2004 by G. Bontempi,  is a research unit of the Computer Science Department of the ULB (Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium), Faculty of Sciences, currently co-headed by Prof. Gianluca Bontempi and Prof. Tom Lenaerts.
More details on current and past projects on related topics are available on https://www.researchgate.net/project/Fraud-detection-5 and the page of the DefeatFraud project

Worldline SA is a French multinational payment and transactional services company founded in 1974. It is the European leader in the payments and transactional services industry and #4 player worldwide.

Citations:
Andrea Dal Pozzolo, Olivier Caelen, Reid A. Johnson and Gianluca Bontempi. Calibrating Probability with Undersampling for Unbalanced Classification. In Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Data Mining (CIDM), IEEE, 2015


## Composition

This dataset presents transactions that occurred in two days, where there are just 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is therefore highly unbalanced as the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions.
It contains only numerical input variables which are the result of a Principle Component Analysis transformation (dimensionality reduction technique).
Features V1, V2, … V28 are the principal components obtained with PCA, the only features which have not been transformed with PCA are 'Time' and 'Amount'.

Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset.
Feature 'Amount' is the transaction Amount, this feature can be used for example-dependant cost-sensitive learning.
Feature 'Class' is the response variable and it takes value 1 in case of fraud and 0 otherwise.

There is no missing data or null values

Due to confidentiality issues, the original features and more background information about the data is not provided. The PCA process has obfuscated any potentially confidential data.


## Collection process

Data was acquired from Worldline's payment systems

Data covers 2 days were of credit card transactions - there is no detail available on why these 2 days were selected or if these are samples from a larger dataset covering those 2 days.


## Preprocessing/cleaning/labelling

Features V1 to V28 were generated by undertaking Principle Component Analysis Dimensionality reduction to protect user identities and sensitive features.

Feature 'Time' contains the seconds elapsed between each transaction and the first transaction in the dataset. This has been derived from the original date / time stamp of the transaction.

The 'raw' data is not made available due to confidentiality issues.
 
## Uses

Dataset could also be used for analysing transaction amounts over time.

There are no restrictions on usage due to the PCA obfuscation.


## Distribution

Data was obtained from Kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud?resource=download

Dataset is Licensed under Database Contents License (DbCL) : https://opendatacommons.org/licenses/dbcl/1-0/


## Maintenance

The dataset is owned by: Machine Learning Group - ULB
There are no expected maintenance updates


